Draft: CIP 33: Multi Currency Support (#124)
celo-org/celo-proposals: CIPs/cip-0033.md

---
cip: 33
title: Multi Currency Support

> author: Nadiem Sissouno (@sissnad)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author: Nadiem Sissouno (@sissnad), Martín Volpe (@martinvol)
```

discussions-to: https://github.com/celo-org/celo-proposals/issues/125
status: Draft
type: Standards Track

> category: Ring 0

Reviewer 2: nit: I think this is `Ring 1`. Seems like a core feature that won't cause chain halt if we mess something up

Reviewer 3: Moving it to Ring 1 based on the mental model by @prestwich that describes the classification best:
```
classify by failure modes:
ring 0: halt the chain (liveness or safety violation), require manual intervention
ring 1: chain does bad things but keeps running
```

Given it's an upgrade to core contracts that doesn't halt the chain, it's a Ring 1. Will update the category and approve and merge the PR.

## **Abstract**

The addition of another stabilized value digital asset requires:

- the deployment of cEUR as a stabilized value digital asset,
- an extension of the stability mechanism to cover cEUR,
- additional oracles to be deployed.

We propose to add a second independent Mento unit ([Approach 1](#rationale)) to the network. The stability of each stabilized value digital asset is maintained independently. There will be no direct dependencies between the cUSD and the cEUR Mento unit. In particular, each Mento features its own Celo on-chain bucket and the pricing functions of the two automated market makers are not sensitive to transactions with the other Mento unit.

## **Motivation**

The addition of cEUR is the first step towards an ecosystem on Celo that hosts a family of stabilized value assets. Further assets can be added following the paragon of cEUR. Therefore, the addition of cEUR serves two purposes: extending the Celo network with an important stabilized value digital asset as well preparing the ground for future extensions with other stabilized value assets.

## **Specification**

### Deployment of cEUR

**For StableToken:**

> - Retain stableToken (for compatibility).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Retain stableToken in the registry (for compatibility).
```

- Create a new entry called cUSD pointing to the same as stableToken entry.
- Create a new entry called cEUR pointing to a new cEUR proxy.
- Add a new Gas currency (cEUR) to the FeeCurrencyWhitelist.

> **Proxy implementations:**<br>

Reviewer 3: Delete the <br>

Reviewer 3: `<br>`

A priori, no changes should be written to the proxy contracts.

> - Deploy a new cUSD proxy (e.g. cUSDProxy) pointing to the same implementation as existing stableTokenProxy.
> - Deploy a cEUR proxy (e.g. cEURProxy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Implementation**
- Deploy a cEUR proxy (e.g. cEURProxy), with the same implementation as cUSDProxy.
```

### Stability Mechanism

For cEUR one independent Mento will be deployed. All Mento exchanges (cUSD and cEUR) will be backed by the same reserve.

**For Exchange:**

> - Retain exchange (for compatibility).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Retain exchange in the registry (for compatibility).
```

- Create a new entry called (e.g. exchangecUSD) pointing to the same as exchange entry.
- Create a new entry called (e.g exchangecEUR) pointing to a new exchange proxy for cEUR.

**For Reserve:**

> - New Proxy spender address should be added to the reserve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The reserve needs to be able to send CELO to multiple exchanges spenders (see #6165).
- New Proxy spender address should be added to the reserve.
```
